====== The Saucy Sailor ======

Dance was devised by Marjorie Heffer and William Porter in 1932 \\
Published in "Maggot Pie".\\
dance for two facing couples (becket formation).\\
Tune: Saucy Sailor
<code> 
Part I
Al 1—2  All dancers facing front, 1st man and 1st
        woman slip four steps sideways away
        from each other, while 2nd couple lead
        forward a double.
   3-4  1st couple move forward a double, while
        2nd man and 2nd woman slip four steps
        sideways away from each other.
   5-6 Ist couple slip four steps sideways towards
       each other, while 2nd couple fall back a double.
   7-8  lst couple fall back a double to places,
        while 2nd couple slip four steps sideways 
        towards each other to places. 

A2 1—8  Partners facing, 1st man and 2nd woman
        slip four steps away from each other, 
        move down a double, slip four steps
        towards each other, and fall back a
        double to places; while 2nd man and
        Ist woman lead up a double, slip four
        steps away from each other, fall back a
        double, and slip four steps towards each
        other to places.

B1 1—4 The men gypsy clockwise, facing outwards,
       while the women (not casting off) skip
       once round the set, also clockwise.
  5-8  All fall back a double diagonally away from
       the centre, and come forward to places.

B2 1—4  The women gypsy counter-clockwise, facing
        inwards, while the men (not casting off)
        skip once round the set, also counterclockwise.

Part II
A1 1—2  1st couple, giving both hands, slip four
        steps to the right wall, passing between
       2nd man and 2nd woman, who, facing
       each other, simultaneously slip four steps
       to the left wall,
   3-4 2nd couple, giving both hands, back
       Plates, passing between Ist man and
       1st woman, who simultaneously slip back
       to places.
   5-8 All that again.

A2 1—2 Ist man and 2nd Woman, giving both hands,
       slip four steps down, Passing between the
       other two, who, facing each other,
       simultaneously slip four Steps up.
   3-4 2nd man and 1st Woman, giving both hands,
       slip down to places, Passing between the
       others, who simultaneous]y slip up to places.
   5—8 All that again.

B1 1-4 Ist man, joining both hands with 2nd
       woman and pulling her after him, goes
       backward round ga half circle counter-
       clockwise into 2nd man’s place, while
       2nd man, joining both hands with
       Ist woman, makes a similar movement
       into 1st man’s place.
   5—8 Partners set and turn single.
B2 1-4 Ist man, joining both hands with his partner
       and pulling her after him, goes backward
       round a half circle clockwise to his own
       place, while 2nd man does the same with
       his partner, :
  5-8  Opposites set and turn single. 

Part 11I
Al 1-4  The men, turning their right shoulders
        towards each other, slip across into each
        other's places, passing back to back,
        and then slip back to their own places,
        passing in front of cach other: meanwhile
        the women fall back a double diagonally
        away from the centre and come forward
        a double to places.
    5—8 The men slip four steps to their right behind
        their partners, and then four steps to their
        left in front of them, while the women
        slip four steps to their left in front of
        their partners and then four steps to their
        right behind them.

A2 1—4  The women do as the men did in Al, bars
        1—4, and vice versa.
   5—8  All slip as in Al, bars 5—8, but this time the
        men pass first in front of, and then
        behind, their partners.

B2 1—4  Hands-four once round clockwise (sl.s.).
   5—6  The men do three-quarters of a gypsy,
        facing outward, so that they finish back
        to back facing their partners in a
        diagonal line.
  7—8  Partners set and honour,</code>
  
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ipzjGtAqUGs  \\
Not many dances were devised in the 1920s and 30s.\\
Lyrics: https://fictionpredilection.weebly.com/blog/the-saucy-sailor