====== LULL ME BEYOND THEE ======
Longways for Eight; in four parts (1st Ed., 1650).\\
Longways set, bottom two couples improper, numbered 3124 from the top\\
Recording: {{ ::music:lull_me_beyond_thee-bnah5-03.mp3.zip |}}
<code>
   MUSIC.        MOVEMENTS.
First Part.
A1   1-4    All move forward a double, meet, and fall back a double to places (r.s.).
     5-8    That again.
B1   1-2    First man and second woman lead out to the left wall, 
            and second man and first woman to right wall; while third and 
            fourth couples move up and down, respectively, and meet (r.s.).
            
     3-4    First and third couples, four abreast, take hands, and fall back 
            a double toward the Presence; while second and fourth couples, 
            facing the Presence, take hands and fall back a double (r.s.).
     5-8    All move forward, and each man turns the woman opposite to him.
     
B2   1-2    Third couple leads up a double, and fourth couple leads down a double; 
            while first man and second woman and second man and first woman 
            move forward a double and meet (r.s.).
            
     3-4    First and third men, second and fourth women, four abreast, 
            take hands and fall back a double toward left wall; while the other 
            four takes hands and fall back a double toward right wall (r.s.).
     5-8    All move forward, and each man turns his partner.
     
Second Part.
A1   1-4    Partners side (r.s.).
     5-8    Third and fourth men side with their partners; while first man 
            sides with second woman, and second man with first woman (r.s.).
B1   1-4    First and third men, and second and fourth women take hands, 
            move forward a double to left wall, and fall back a double to places; 
            while the other four do the same to the right wall (r.s.).
            
     5-8    First and third men, and second and fourth women, hands-four to places; 
            while the other four do the same.
B2   1-4    First and third couples, four abreast (third man on the left, 
            third woman on the right), lead up a double and fall back a double; 
            while second and fourth couples lead down a double and fall back a double 
            (fourth man on the left, fourth woman on the right) (r.s.).
            
     5-8    First and third couples hands-four to places; while second and fourth 
            couples do the same.
            
Third Part
A1   1-4    Partners arm with the right.
     5-8    Third and fourth men arm their partners with the left; while first man 
            arms with second woman, and second man with first woman in like manner.
B1   1-2    First man and second woman lead out a double to left wall, and second man 
            and first woman to right wall; while third and fourth couples move 
            forward and meet (r.s.). Third man and fourth woman then take hands and 
            face left wall; while fourth man and third woman take hands and face right 
            wall.
            
     3-4    First man and second woman, and second man and first woman, lead back 
            to places, holding up their hands. Simultaneously, third man and fourth 
            woman lead out to left wall, passing under the arch made by first man and 
            second woman; while fourth man and third woman, passing under the arch 
            made by second man and first woman, do likewise (r.s.).
     5-8    Each man turns the woman he is handing.
     
B2   1-2    First couple leads up a double, and second couple down a double; while 
            third man and fourth woman, fourth man and third woman, move forward and 
            meet (r.s.). Third man and third woman take hands and face up; while 
            fourth man and fourth woman take hands and face down.
            
     3-4    First and second couples lead back to places, holding up their hands. 
            Simultaneously, third man and third woman lead up to places, passing 
            under the arch made by first man and first woman; while fourth man and 
            fourth woman, passing under the arch made by second man and second woman, 
            lead down and do likewise (r.s.).
    5-8     Each man turns his partner.</code>

video: http://dancevideos.childgrove.org/ecd/playford/282-lull-me-beyond-thee

====== LULL ME BEYOND THEE. ======
 From the Round.

 Longways for Eight; in four parts (1st Ed., 1650). \\ Longways set, bottom two couples improper, numbered 3124 from the top
<code>
 MUSIC. MOVEMENTS.
 First Part.
 A1 1-4 All move forward a double, meet, and fall back a     
        double to places (r.s.).                             
    5-8 That again.                                          
 B1 1-2 First man and second woman lead out to the left     
        wall, and second man and first woman to right wall;  
        while third and fourth couples move up and down,     
        respectively, and meet (r.s.).                       
    3-4 First and third couples, four abreast, take hands,   
        and fall back a double toward the Presence; while    
        second and fourth couples, facing the Presence, take 
        hands and fall back a double (r.s.).                 
    5-8 All move forward, and each man turns the woman       
        opposite to him.                                     
 B2 1-2 Third couple leads up a double, and fourth couple    
        leads down a double; while first man and second woman
        and second man and first woman move forward a double 
        and meet (r.s.).                                     
    3-4 First and third men, second and fourth women, four   
        abreast, take hands and fall back a double toward    
        left wall; while the other four takes hands and fall 
        back a double toward right wall (r.s.).              
    5-8 All move forward, and each man turns his partner.    
        Second Part.                                         
 A1 1-4 Partners side (r.s.).                                
    5-8 Third and fourth men side with their partners; while 
        first man sides with second woman, and second man    
        with first woman (r.s.).                             
 B1 1-4 First and third men, and second and fourth women take
        hands, move forward a double to left wall, and fall  
        back a double to places; while the other four do the 
        same to the right wall (r.s.).                       
    5-8 First and third men, and second and fourth women,    
        hands-four to places; while the other four do the    
        same.                                                
 B2 1-4 First and third couples, four abreast (third man on  
        the left, third woman on the right), lead up a double
        and fall back a double; while second and fourth      
        couples lead down a double and fall back a double    
        (fourth man on the left, fourth woman on the right)  
        (r.s.).                                              
    5-8 First and third couples hands-four to places; while  
        second and fourth couples do the same. Third Part.   
 A1 1-4 Partners arm with the right.                         
    5-8 Third and fourth men arm their partners with the     
        left; while first man arms with second woman, and    
        second man with first woman in like manner.          
 B1 1-2 First man and second woman lead out a double to left 
        wall, and second man and first woman to right wall;  
        while third and fourth couples move forward and meet 
        (r.s.). Third man and fourth woman then take hands   
        and face left wall; while fourth man and third woman 
        take hands and face right wall.                      
    3-4 First man and second woman, and second man and first 
        woman, lead back to places, holding up their hands.  
        Simultaneously, third man and fourth woman lead out  
        to left wall, passing under the arch made by first   
        man and second woman; while fourth man and third     
        woman, passing under the arch made by second man and 
        first woman, do likewise (r.s.).                     
    5-8 Each man turns the woman he is handing.              
 B2 1-2 First couple leads up a double, and second couple    
        down a double; while third man and fourth woman,     
        fourth man and third woman, move forward and meet    
        (r.s.). Third man and third woman take hands and face
        up; while fourth man and fourth woman take hands and 
        face down.                                           
    3-4 First and second couples lead back to places, holding
        up their hands. Simultaneously, third man and third  
        woman lead up to places, passing under the arch made 
        by first man and first woman; while fourth man and   
        fourth woman, passing under the arch made by second  
        man and second woman, lead down and do likewise      
        (r.s.).                                              
    5-8 Each man turns his partner.</code>  
   http://www.srcf.ucam.org/round/dances/cdb/cdb3/lull \\
Page maintained by Hugh Stewart (Hugh.Stewart@acm.org)

